## Layer Programming

**The program can be divided into three layers, what are they?**

- data structure
- sorting functions
- user interface

### Split the program into files according to the defined layers.

- Data (list) Structure: `list.c/h`
- Sorting Functions: `sort.c/h`
- User Interface: `util.c/h`
- main function for cmd user interface: `driver_cmd.c`
- main function for menu user interface: `driver_menu.c`

### I/O File Format for cmd ui

Input:

- `rand_int.txt`: the type of data is `int`
- `rand_char.txt`: the type of data is `char*`
- `rand_double.txt`: the type of data is `double`

Output:

Format: `sortingtype_datatype.txt`

sortingtype:

- `rand`: the order of elements is random
- `inc`: the sorting order is increasing
- `dec`: the sorting order is decreasing

datatype:

- `int`: the type of data is `int`
- `char`: the type of data is `char*`
- `double`: the type of data is `double`

### Compile the Program

A `Makefile` is provided to compile the program. A sample command is provided below:

```shell
make cmd
./ui_cmd rand_int.txt dec
make menu
./ui_menu
```

A set of testcases is provided in the folder.

## Libraries

- **What are the three stages performed when compiling a file?**
  - preprocessing, compilation and linking
  - For preprocessing, the preprocessor includes other header files, expands macros, does conditional compilation and so on.
  - For compilation, the compiler read the source files and produce the corresponding assembly code.
  - For linking, the linker takes several object files and produce a single binary executable program.
- **difference between static and dynamic library**
  - static libraries are locked in to the program when being compiled; dynamic libraries exist as separate files outside the binary file.

### static library

use `-c` command to compile the source and header file so as to create a static library file.

create two static library files:

```shell
gcc -c list.c -o list.o
ar rcs list.a list.o 
gcc -c sort.c -o sort.o
ar rcs sort.a sort.o 
gcc -c ui.c -o ui.o
ar rcs ui.a ui.o 
```

compile the cmd driver program:

```shell
gcc -c driver_menu.c -o ui_cmd.o
gcc -o ui_cmd ui_cmd.o -L. -lsort -llist -lui
./ui_cmd
```

### dynamic library[^1]

```shell
gcc *.c -c -fPIC
gcc *.o -shared -o libmenu.so
gcc -L. -o ui_menu ui_menu.c -lmenu
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=./:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
./ui_menu
```

difference between a library and the API: 

An API is a software component that provides the developer with many applicable utilities, while a library is a collection of functionality that may not make up of an application.

For the implementation, see `./lab5_dlist.h`.