## Initial Questions

1. **What is a kernel module, and how does it different from a regular library?**

   Kernel modules are pieces of code that can be loaded and unloaded into the kernel upon demand. They extend the functionality of the kernel without the need to reboot the system. A module can be configured as built-in or loadable. To dynamically load or remove a module, it has to be configured as a loadable module in the kernel configuration.

2. **How to compile a kernel module?**

   Kernel modules need to be compiled a bit differently from regular userspace apps. Former kernel versions required us to care much about these settings, which are usually stored in Makefiles. Although hierarchically organized, many redundant settings accumulated in sublevel Makefiles and made them large and rather difficult to maintain. Fortunately, there is a new way of doing these things, called **kbuild**, and the build process for external loadable modules is now fully integrated into the standard kernel build mechanism.

   A sample makefile is shown as follows:

   ```makefile
   obj-m += hello-1.o
   
   all:
   	make -C /lib/modules/$(shell uname -r)/build M=$(PWD) modules
   
   clean:
   	make -C /lib/modules/$(shell uname -r)/build M=$(PWD) clean
   ```

3. **Check `dadfs` for source code**

4. **How are mutex defined and used?** **How good is this approach?**

   Two mutex in total are defined.

   - `dadfs_sb_lock`: lock super block when action is taken on block.
   - `dadfs_inodes_mgmt_lock`: lock super block when block inode is to be changed.
   - `dadfs_directory_children_update_lock`: lock super block when two children of the block is created at the same time.

   Advantages:

   - Two different subtypes of mutex is used for better efficiency instead of just one type of mutex for every possible situation

5. **How is information shared between the kernel and user spaces?**

6. **Check `README.md` file for changes**.



